gh-101100: Fix Sphinx reference warnings in the glossary (#114729)
python/cpython: Doc/glossary.rst

   loader
      An object that loads a module. It must define a method named

>       :meth:`!load_module`. A loader is typically returned by a

Reviewer: Here you could link to https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#importlib.abc.Loader.load_module

But I think this glossary entry may be outdated, since the docs for that method describe it as being "deprecated since Python 3.4"

Author: I tried that change locally, but even after rebuilding the html docs I couldn't see that link. Maybe the deprecation had something to do with that.

Reviewer: Not sure, but I still think the "principled" way to fix this reference warning would be to update this glossary entry so that it doesn't talk about a deprecated method at all anymore. The Sphinx warning is a useful reminder that there's something incorrect here, in the meantime -- I don't think it would be the right thing to do to just silence it :)

That might be big enough to be its own PR -- maybe this change should just be reverted for now?

Author: Can we save that for a different PR? I'm not qualified to describe/define this term. I was just trying to eliminate the reference nit.

Reviewer: Sounds good -- could you revert this change for now, then? If we leave the reference warning there, we'll have a reminder that there's something that needs to be fixed here :)

      The :class:`collections.abc.Sequence` abstract base class
      defines a much richer interface that goes beyond just

>       :meth:`~object.__getitem__` and :meth:`~object.__len__`.
>       :ref:`Common Sequence Operations <typesseq-common>`
>       provides a list common to most sequence types.
>       Types which implement this expanded interface can be registered explicitly using
>       :func:`~abc.ABCMeta.register`.

Reviewer: I think I'd do something like this:

```suggestion
      :meth:`~object.__getitem__` and :meth:`~object.__len__`, adding
      :meth:`!count`, :meth:`!index`, :meth:`~object.__contains__`, and
      :meth:`~object.__reversed__`. Types that implement this expanded
      interface can be registered explicitly using
      :func:`~abc.ABCMeta.register`. For more documentation on sequence
      methods generally, see
      :ref:`Common Sequence Operations <typesseq-common>`.
```

Author: Hmmm... I know `__contains__` and `__reversed__` were there before, but what makes them special enough to call out here? `__getitem__` and `__len__` are the most basic sequence methods, so I understand why they are mentioned.

Reviewer: The glossary entry is attempting here to distinguish between two definitions of "sequence" -- the loose concept of a sequence (`__getitem__` + `__len__`), and the more involved `collections.abc.Sequence` interface. I think it's useful for the entry to explain the difference between those two things, because they're easily confused. In order for the entry to explain the difference between those two things, it needs to list the extra methods that the `collections.abc.Sequence` interface adds on top of the "loose concept of sequence"

Author: > In order for the entry to explain the difference between those two things, **it needs to list the extra methods** that the collections.abc.Sequence interface adds on top of the "loose concept of sequence"

I guess this is what I don't get. Why enumerate these few methods and not all the others beyond `__getitem__` and `__len__`?

Edit: Put another way, how does enumerating a subset of the methods `collections.abc.Sequence` adds to the casual definition of a sequence help the reader?

Reviewer: > and not all the others beyond `__getitem__` and `__len__`?

_Are_ there any others beyond `__getitem__` and `__len__` that `collections.abc.Sequence` adds and that aren't listed here? I can only see `__iter__`, which doesn't seem worth mentioning, since anything that implements `__getitem__` and `__len__` is actually already iterable even if it doesn't have an `__iter__` method. By contrast the fact that all `collections.abc.Sequence` instances have a `__contains__` method means that you can always use the `in` operator with them, and the fact that they all have a `__reversed__` method means that you can call `reversed()` on them

      The :class:`collections.abc.Sequence` abstract base class
      defines a much richer interface that goes beyond just
      :meth:`~object.__getitem__` and :meth:`~object.__len__`, adding
      :meth:`!count`, :meth:`!index`, :meth:`~object.__contains__`, and

>       :meth:`~object.__reversed__`. Types that implement this expanded

Reviewer: I think you're correct that we don't need a link for each one of these methods, but perhaps you could work in a reference to https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations somewhere here. The existing link to `collections.abc.Sequence` doesn't actually provide any documentation for any of these methods, unfortunately.

Author: Would the reference to `collections.abc.Sequence` at the beginning of the paragraph be sufficient? Or maybe that should be a link to more pedestrian `common sequence operations`? When someone looks up a term in the glossary, I'm not sure we should expect them to be conversant in abstract base classes...

Reviewer: I think it would be useful to link to both `collections.abc.Sequence` and the table on common sequence operations. The former link is useful because we need to distinguish between the glossary term "sequence" and the ABC `Sequence`. The latter link is useful because the docs for `collections.abc.Sequence` don't actually document any of the ABC's abstract methods (and nor do they directly link to documentation for any of its abstract methods)

Author: So, the bare minimum is `__getitem__` and `__len__`, but there's more to sequences than just that. The glossary entry mentions a few others. I could graft on a link to [Common Sequence Operations](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations), but it seems cleaner to leave `__getitem__` and `__len__` there, but remove the other methods which are mentioned and instead provide that external link. Something like:

```
The :class:`collections.abc.Sequence` abstract base class
defines a much richer interface that goes beyond just
:meth:`~object.__getitem__` and :meth:`~object.__len__`.
`Common Set Operations</library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations>`_
provides a list common to most sequence types. Types which implement this expanded
interface can be registered explicitly using
:func:`~abc.ABCMeta.register`.
```

Does that seem better to you?

(I'm not sure how to actually link to a completely different document within the set. That's just a stab.)

Author: I just pushed the above change (after figuring out the `:ref:...` syntax). LMK.
